[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now what about line 17.
I start referencing this bizarrely named
property underscore underscore
proto underscore underscore.
Let me just stop right here and
say, a couple years ago
the JavaScript community was trying to
come up with a better name for that.
Because no one wants to say underscore
underscore proto underscore underscore.
So we came up with a better name for
it, kind of like we came up with IIFE.
The name for that underscore
underscore thing is Dunder,
kind of like Dunder Mifflin.
So if you want to be
a cool kid in javascript,
the way to properly pronounce
that property name is Dunder Pro.
So that's the third thing that I will say,
and keep that distinguished from
the other two dot prototypes,
is that underscore underscore pro
I will pronounce as Dunder pro.
Okay?
So a1.__proto,
is there a __proto property on this guy?
No, so what's he gonna do?
He's gonna come up to this object.
Is there a __proto on this guy?
No, so he's gonna come up to this guy,
and it turns out there is in fact
a Dunder Proto on the built
in object prototype.
So when we say a1.__proto,
we are calling this property.
Turns out it's not actually a property.
Turns out it's a Gedder Function.
So it's kind of like making
a function call on line 17.
Guess what that function call does.
It returns the internal prototype
linkage of whatever the this binding is.
At the call site on line 17, we pretend
that there's some parenthesis on line 17.
When that's calling a function,
what will the this keyword be
inside of that function called?
>> Speaker 1: A1.
>> Kyle Simpson: A1.
Which is what we want it to be.
So it's going to return the internal
prototype linkage of A1.
So this bracket bracket
P is the internal link.
We can say that the public link for
it is underscore,
underscore proto or Dunder Proto.
>> Kyle Simpson: Everybody following so
far?
This is a public property that
references an internal characteristic.
Now, the problem with Dunder proto
is that its never been standardized.
It was invented 15 years ago by
Mozilla because they wanted some
way to publicly expose this internal
property, but it's never standardized.
Unfortunately, even though it was not
standardized, everybody adopted it.
Safari, and Chrome, and
all the other browsers,
they all came out and adopted it.
Except for one browser,
anybody guess which browser?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] IE.
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH]
Internet Explorer said no, no, no,
we're not gonna put a dunder
proto on there, no, no.
In a shocking twist of irony Internet
Explorer, Microsoft, who's the king
of adding proprietary non-standard
stuff to JavaScript said no, no, no.
Dunder proto's not standardized.
We're not gonna add that to the language
until it gets standardized.
And they could never agree on the TC39
committee how to standardize it, so
it became a defacto standard,
except for IE.
Which means it wasn't really reliable,
because if you had any code that needed
to run in IE, you couldn't use it.
So there's a lot of people that
really hate the Dunder proto,
I'm not advocating for or against it,
I'm just telling you it exists.
But it's non standard, until ES6.
It's finally been standardized.
That doesn't mean that you should use it.
It just means that they agree that
it's finally about time that,
if everybody's been using it,
we ought to go ahead and standardize it.
And guess what happened
immediately after TC39
publicly said we're gonna standardize it?
IE dropped it into IE 11.
So, it exists in IE 11.
>> Speaker 1: This has been a request
from a couple of people in the chat.
If we could pause whenever we're
done drawing this drawing, and
have it on the full screen so
that it could be screen captured.
Or if there's-
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't wanna-
>> Speaker 1: Or if you have a drawing of
it online somewhere.
>> Kyle Simpson: I don't mind it, but I've
already said this exact same diagram in
a better form comes like
three slides from now.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: So I'm only drawing
out the diagram so you see how
it fits with the lines of code.
But I provide you these diagrams
in a few slides, so don't worry.
ALright so this a1.__proto__
points at this object, and
we can see that that's the same thing
as foo.prototype, everybody see that?
a1.__proto__ is the same
thing as foo.prototype and
both a1 and a2 point to the same object.
Everybody with me so far?
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
moving on to the next slide.
Its the same code but
I want to illustrate one other thing.
This Dunder proto not being
standard until, of course, ES 6.
Back in the ES 5 days,
that was back in like 2009, 2011,
they said we do need to provide
some standardized way for
you to access the internal
prototype characteristic.
We're not going to do it
with the Dunbar proto, but
we need to provide some way to do it.
As an ES5, they added a mechanism
that you see here on line one,
get prototype of Object.getprototypeof,
is a utility that will extract
the internal prototype characteristic.
Okay, so if we ask for the characteristic
of a1 it's going to give us this linkage.
So that was added as of es5 which
means it was standardised as of es5,
which means ie put it in as of ie9.
So while you didn't have dunner proto, you
did have object.getprototypeof as of ie9.
Which is a lot better than IE11,
but it still leaves IE8 and
below totally out in the cold.
What do we do about IE8 and below.
We then come to the third and final
way that you can, in a very crappy and
hacky way, get at that linkage.
And the way that we do that
Is what you see in line 18.
We can do this really
crazy indirect approach.
We can say something like a2.constructor
which gets over here to foo,
.prototype which gets
back here to the objects.
So a2.contructor.prototype will
also get us to the object.
Now, here's the problem with that,
both the constructor property and
the prototype property
are writable properties.
They happen to default to point
in where we show them here.
But guess what happens if either or
both of them gets overwritten?
Then that third way of doing it
is completely out the window,
it's totally non-reliable.
They're not special properties in
some sense that they're protected or
somehow forced to be the right thing.
They're just properties and
they can be changed.
Okay.
But those are our three
ways of getting it,
we have Dunder proto, which is available
as of IE 11 and standardized as a VES6.
We have a object I'd get prototype of
gets us that same linkage that's available
as of IE 9, standardized as of IE 5.
And we have this crappy ES 3 way of
doing it, dot constructor dot prototype.